The Man, the Boy and the Donkey
Once, a man and his son were going into town. They wanted to sell some potatoes. They went with their donkey, and the donkey carried the potatoes.

While they walked, another man came past on a horse.

‘Shame on you!’ he said. ‘Why do you have a donkey, but you don’t ride it? Donkeys should be ridden.’

So the man said to his son, ‘Get on the donkey and ride it.’

They kept on going. A few hours later, a group of old women walked past.

‘Look at that lazy young boy,’ said one of the women. ‘Shame on him! He makes his father walk while he rides. His father should ride on the horse.’

So the man said to his son, ‘Get off the donkey. I will ride.’

They kept on going. An hour later, an old man walked past them.

‘Shame on that man!’ he said. ‘He sits and rides the donkey, while his son must walk and walk. His son should ride on the donkey.’

The man didn’t know what to do. Some people said that he should ride, and some people said that his son should ride. So he picked up the boy and put him on the donkey’s shoulders.

They kept on going, and they came to a house. There, people pointed at them and said things.

‘What is it this time?!’ said the man. ‘What have we done wrong?’

‘Shame on you both!’ they said. ‘That donkey is old, and you and your fat son are sitting on his back. He will die soon, we think!’

The man and his son got off the donkey and thought about what to do. If the man rode on it, people complained. If his son rode on it, people complained. If they both rode on it, people complained. Finally, the man said, ‘We will carry the donkey.’

So the man and his son carried the donkey on their shoulders. Now people pointed and laughed at them. The donkey did not like being carried. He was afraid. The man and his son also did not like carrying the donkey, because he was heavy.

They came to a bridge, and the man could not carry the donkey anymore. The donkey fell off the bridge and into the river.

‘Oh no!’ said the son.

‘Quick!’ said the man.

They ran and took the donkey out of the water, but now he was all wet. The potatoes had all fallen into the water, and now they could not sell them.

So you see, you cannot please everyone.
